Work / Project Examples
Provide up to three examples of work/projects that you've recently participated in and provide detailed information about your role and contributions to the project

1) https://github.com/nallani21/2016_SIP_WAS_BSA_PoliTeen-.git
PoliTeens! is an interactive website on which teenagers can discuss demanding issues they believe are plaguing the nation. These users can then attempt to actively present solutions by submitting policy proposals or even full-fledged legislation to Congress. Using our site, users would be able to post discussions about issues on a forum, draw contact information from a map of their  elected members of Congress and quickly access legislation on any given topic that has already been created for easy revision and submission. I worked on this project with three of my peers and I, along with another group member, was responsible for designing the structure of the website. While we all contributed to the purpose and functionality of the website, I worked on designing the interface of the website. We were able to incorporate JavaScript into our website through the map feature. I was also responsible for writing the function that allowed the user to click on a state and view the current senators for that state. We used the id “map” and the identity “usmapclick” to initialize the event. When the event entered “clicked-state,” the website would display the corresponding senator's names. Through this experience I was able to enhance my skills as programmer and was able to  <maybe a quick sentence about the main skills you achieved or what the best part of this project was? Just to tie it together>

2) https://devpost.com/software/eventable-x5a8kz
Eventable is a new and innovative solution to solve a  common problem: boredom. By providing local businesses the chance to publicize their small events, we not only help create exposure but also ensure that the community is informed. Whether the user is looking for a night out to party or a motivational speech to attend, Eventable connects the user to nearby adventures that could be easily overlooked. I, along with another teammate, worked together on the design and technical aspect of our project. We built a wireframe for the website so that our team would have a clear understanding of the functionality of the website. We then successfully implemented the project using HTML, CSS and Javascript. <same thing here as the last sentence from above>

Inspiration
Provide up to three examples of work that has recently inspired you from a technical perspective. These can be open source projects, CodePens/CodeSandboxes, blog posts, etc. Be sure to include specifics on what you found inspiring

I have a passion for design and cater to this interest by spending time researching new tools and popular applications that are used in the industry. I find it fascinating when I discover new resources and projects that I feel I can relate to and would potentially be able to work with. Through my research, I came upon a tool called Invision. Invision is a rich prototyping tool that allows creators and designers to quickly mock up “rich” website or app prototypes. I was intrigued by the simple yet impactful nature of the design that the projects created by Invision have implemented. I was also interested in how the tool makes it significantly easier for the user to bring his or her vision to life in order to put out the best product possible. Seeing tools like this motivates me as a developer to create things that are impactful and useful to society. Tools like Invision make the transition from idea to creation much more attainable, which I believe is one of the greatest services a product can provide.

In the process of researching, I also came upon Material UI. This is a design language developed by Google in 2014. It is open source and used/created by Google to design its operating system and other sites. I personally find this language to be very interesting because the projects these large platforms implement are incredibly complex, even if the program appears to be as simple as a small animation. Finding such useful tools compels me to believe that the possibilities are endless. When considering that most of Google’s mobile applications are implemented using Material UI, this tool’s broad reach becomes even more apparent.

Focus
If you were given the time and resources to build/learn anything you wanted during your internship, where would you choose to focus your efforts? Provide a brief description of how you would spend your time

I believe that my interests and actions are dictated by one of my defining characteristics: my passion for learning  I truly feel that there is a wealth of knowledge to gain with each experience and I’m eager to find it. If given the opportunity, I would love to focus on the product development process. One point that draws me to Critical Mass is the level of importance given to building an impactful product that satisfies and exceeds a client’s expectations. I hope to one day master this ability, as I believe it his ability is vital step to becoming a successful innovator. I would love to be included in a project that allows me to personally work with developers and clients to build a meaningful project. Being in this environment to observe and contribute to the product development process would be very valuable to me. More specifically, I am interested in app development. I personally don’t have a lot of experience in this area, but I am eager to learn more about it. Apps have such a large influence on people’s daily lives and app development is a skill I would like to learn about so that I can build interesting projects of my own. 
